README.md, before:

# Responsive Web Design

This document tracks my notes and code from the book [Responsive Web Design](http://rwd.education) by Ben Frain.

---

## Learnings

### 06/29/2025

1. **Dialog Element in HTML**

   The `<dialog>` element provides a native way to create dialog boxes in HTML. It's hidden by default and shown via JavaScript.

   ```html
   <body>
     <button id="launchDialog">Where is the dialog?</button>
     <p id="formResult"></p>
     <dialog id="dialogEle">
       <form method="dialog">
         <h1>How about this? A native Dialog.</h1>
         <p>So, only thing left to do is dismiss me.</p>
         <button value="Dismissed">Dismiss Dialog</button>
       </form>
     </dialog>
     <script>
       const dialogEle = document.getElementById('dialogEle');
       const launchBtn = document.getElementById('launchDialog');
       const formResult = document.getElementById('formResult');

       launchBtn.addEventListener("click", () => dialogEle.showModal());
       dialogEle.addEventListener('close', () => {
         formResult.textContent = dialogEle.returnValue;
       });
     </script>
   </body>
   ```

   - The `<dialog>` element is hidden until `showModal()` is called.
   - It can be closed by:
     - Clicking a `<button>` inside with `method="dialog"`.
     - Pressing Escape.
     - Calling `dialog.close()`.
   - The `returnValue` property is set to the `value` of the button that closed it.

2. **Meta Viewport Tag**

   The `<meta>` viewport tag controls how a page is scaled and displayed on mobile devices.

   ```html
   <meta 
     name="viewport"
     content="width=device-width, initial-scale=2.0, user-scalable=no"
   />
   ```

   - `width=device-width`: Page width matches device's screen.
   - `initial-scale=2.0`: Zooms in 2x by default.
   - `user-scalable=no`: Prevents zooming.

   The most common usage is:

   ```html
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
   ```

3. **Fluid Layouts**

   - Use percentage-based widths instead of fixed widths for flexible layouts.

4. **Media Queries**

   Media queries apply CSS rules based on device properties (like viewport width):

   ```css
   @media screen and (min-width: 550px) {
     body {
       background-color: yellow;
     }
   }
   ```

   Or, omitting `screen`:

   ```css
   @media (min-width: 550px) {
     body {
       background-color: yellow;
     }
   }
   ```

   The typical workflow is:
   - Write base styles for all devices.
   - Add media queries as the design "grows" to accommodate wider screens.

---

### 06/30/2025

_(Notes for this day to be added)_

Commit message:

feat: add responsive layout examples with fixed and adaptive sidebars

README.md, after:

# Responsive Web Design

This document tracks my notes and code from the book [Responsive Web Design](http://rwd.education) by Ben Frain.

---

## Learnings

### 06/29/2025

1. **Dialog Element in HTML**

   The `<dialog>` element provides a native way to create dialog boxes in HTML. It's hidden by default and shown via JavaScript.

   ```html
   <body>
     <button id="launchDialog">Where is the dialog?</button>
     <p id="formResult"></p>
     <dialog id="dialogEle">
       <form method="dialog">
         <h1>How about this? A native Dialog.</h1>
         <p>So, only thing left to do is dismiss me.</p>
         <button value="Dismissed">Dismiss Dialog</button>
       </form>
     </dialog>
     <script>
       const dialogEle = document.getElementById('dialogEle');
       const launchBtn = document.getElementById('launchDialog');
       const formResult = document.getElementById('formResult');

       launchBtn.addEventListener("click", () => dialogEle.showModal());
       dialogEle.addEventListener('close', () => {
         formResult.textContent = dialogEle.returnValue;
       });
     </script>
   </body>
   ```

   - The `<dialog>` element is hidden until `showModal()` is called.
   - It can be closed by:
     - Clicking a `<button>` inside with `method="dialog"`.
     - Pressing Escape.
     - Calling `dialog.close()`.
   - The `returnValue` property is set to the `value` of the button that closed it.

2. **Meta Viewport Tag**

   The `<meta>` viewport tag controls how a page is scaled and displayed on mobile devices.

   ```html
   <meta 
     name="viewport"
     content="width=device-width, initial-scale=2.0, user-scalable=no"
   />
   ```

   - `width=device-width`: Page width matches device's screen.
   - `initial-scale=2.0`: Zooms in 2x by default.
   - `user-scalable=no`: Prevents zooming.

   The most common usage is:

   ```html
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
   ```

3. **Fluid Layouts**

   - Use percentage-based widths instead of fixed widths for flexible layouts.

4. **Media Queries**

   Media queries apply CSS rules based on device properties (like viewport width):

   ```css
   @media screen and (min-width: 550px) {
     body {
       background-color: yellow;
     }
   }
   ```

   Or, omitting `screen`:

   ```css
   @media (min-width: 550px) {
     body {
       background-color: yellow;
     }
   }
   ```

   The typical workflow is:
   - Write base styles for all devices.
   - Add media queries as the design "grows" to accommodate wider screens.

5. We can center an element within its parent element with:

```css
margin: 0 auto;
```

6. There are two important tools for responsive design:
    - Flexbox: For laying things out in one directions at a time
    - Grid: Laying things out in two directions at a time

---

### 06/30/2025

_(Notes for this day to be added)_
